What is a Tsunami?
Tsunamis are huge series of waves, caused by displaacement of water generally in an ocean or a large lake
Some people refer that a tsunami is a tidal wave but it's not because they are different.  
 .

Where do tsunamis occur?
Tsunami mostly occur in the pacific ocean(the Ring of fire). the ring of fire looks like a horseshoe shaped belt and is located around the rim of the pacific ocean.


What are some of the most damaging tsunamis happened on earth?
In 2011 a major tsunami occured in Japan in the Pacific Ocean.
The deadlist natural disaster Tsunami occued in Indian Ocean in 2004, around 230,000 people died in this disaster
In Alaska many Tusnamis happened but the most biggest Tusnami recorded was in July 9,1958.It was over 1700 feet tall.

 
How is a tsunami formed?
First, the tsunami is is caused by Earthquakes,meterorits,Volcanic eruptions and underwater explosions. Then
after that event happens the waves move quickly and long distances, sometimes it can go up to 500 miles per hour.
It is very difficult to detect a tsunami because the waves travel deeper in the ocean and get bigger when it is close to land.


  


What safety measures shoud be taken during Tsunami?
Tsunami can be identified when there is ground shaking for more than 20 seconds near the coastal areas.
If a tsunami comes you should go on higher grounds or evacuate immediataly. Follow the instructions issued by local authorities and SES.





Cause 
How is a tsunami caused by?.
A tsunmi is caused by sudden earthquakes, volcanic euruptions
, landslids, underwater explosions. It can also happen when a metorite hits earth.


What kind of damage can a tsunami cause?
A tsunami can cause lots of damage to houses, habbiats, crops, trees, powerlines and can kill lots of people. It can also make mager flooding that can last for days.

Effects
These are some stuff that will happen after a tsunami comes
1. there will be floods
2. There can be lots of damage to buildings and houses
3. damage to the crops
4. lots of people will be killed
5. Destroy animals habbitats and uprooted plants/trees
6. power lines will fall down and be damaged 


Facts:
1. The word Tusnami came from a Japanese word which means harbor wave.
2, A Tsunami can be a as fast as jet plane.
3. Most Tusnami waves can rise over 100 feets.
4. The series of waves of  the Tsunami is called as a wave train
5. The first wave of a tsunami may not be the biggest one but the orther waves are stronger and bigger.
6. the recent tsunami happened in Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha'apai by a volcanic eruption on January 15,2022.


 
 Pictures
https://www.ducksters.com/science/earth_science/tsunamis.php
tsunami 3


